(air whooshing)
All right, let's get into actually updating,
or editing each of our products,
so if we take a look at our back end here,
and you can go to our playground,
you'll see that there is a mutation called updateProduct,
there's an update for everything,
so it's updateProduct,
and you can pass it,
you have to pass it two things,
the ID of the product you wish to update,
as well as the data which you wish
to update on that product,
so, what we'll do here is,
I'm gonna show you a little bit differently how to do it,
because if we go to our site here,
and I click on one of our products,
here, we're using the URL where the ID is part of the URL,
I'm gonna show you also now how to pass data
in via query parameter,
because sometimes you don't
want that data to be part of the URL,
you just want it to be passed via query param,
which is the question mark,
ID, equals part of the URL,
so let's go to our pages directory here,
and make a new file,
and call it update dot JS,
and I'm just gonna go into cell dot JS,
copy, and paste everything we have in there,
and we'll change this cell page, to UpdatePage,
and then we will make an UpdateProduct component,
we'll go into our components folder here,
make a new file,
capital U, update,
capital P, product dot JS,
and then we'll just export default function, UpdateProduct,
and we'll return P, update, okay.
All right, next, we need to,
let's go into our components directory,
and grab product dot JS,
and right below the paragraph,
we may have had a comment in there that says,
"To do, add the buttons."
We'll give ourselves a class of buttonList,
so a div with the class of buttonList,
and in there a link tag,
and we'll href is equal to,
and this is where it's gonna be a little bit different,
previously, what we did,
was that we did forward slash update,
forward slash, like,
ABC, one, two, three, of the ID,
in our case, now,
we're going to go to a single page,
which is called update,
and we'll pass the data that we need, which is the ID,
along in the query,
so we're going to say the path name is update,
and the query that needs to be passed via the URL,
is ID is equal to the product dot ID,
then inside of here,
we'll just do a little edit,
and then put a little pencil icon,
the lazy person's icon set.
Okay, so if we go to our homepage now,
you see there's an edit button,
you click on that,
and you see how the ID is now being passed
in via a query param,
which is question mark, ID,
that's just another way to do your URLs in Ext JS,
and the way that we can access the ID,
is via the query on the page,
it's exactly the same way.
Okay, so, let's go into our UpdateProduct,
and let's just talk about what we need here,
so one, we need to get the existing product,
two, we need to get the mutation to update the product,
and three, we need the form to handle the updates,
and that's gonna be very similar
to what we did in the create product component,
I always run into this problem where I'm like,
"Hmm, so I have a create form,
"and I have an update form,
"do I make that the same form,
"and deal with the differences via if statements,
"and whatnot inside of the form,
"or do I just create two separate forms,
"and update them individually as I need to?"
And for this case,
and also in a lot of my own cases,
I just side on the,
just being, creating two separate forms,
so you're not dealing with complexity and little edge cases,
so, let's first,
we need to get the existing product,
okay, so to get a product,
you need something about it,
in our case, it's the ID,
so if we go to our update,
how do we get the ID?
Well, we have to go to our update page
in order to get information from the URL,
and that data is passed in via props dot query,
so we're gonna destructure props dot query
into a variable called query,
and if we log out query,
you see we get all kinds of stuff in here,
there we go, object,
there we go, ID,
that's being passed in,
and if I pass in other stuff like
and cool, is equal to true,
that would then also be passed along via that,
so what we'll do here,
is we'll say the ID of the product
that we need to do to update is called query dot ID,
then we can go into our UpdateProduct component,
and destructure that ID,
and then let's just interpolate the ID into here,
so we can just make sure it's being passed properly,
here we go,
and if you go to any other page,
and edit any of these, there we go,
the ID is being piped in, good.
So next up, we need to get the existing product,
so we will make a query for that,
so let's just go above here,
say, const, single product query is equal to GQL,
and we make a query,
we'll call that single product query that takes in an ID,
with the type of ID,
and is required, right?
Because whenever we use this query,
we need to pass in an ID,
and then from that,
we will use our GraphQL,
to query a single product,
so how do you query a single product in GraphQL?
Query, and then it's just product,
and it takes a where,
and then I'm assuming it takes, yeah,
where are the ID is equal to the ID that's passed in, right?
So, we can go in here,
and say, "Give me a product
"where the ID is equal to the ID that's passed in."
And from that, we need the ID of the product,
we don't really need it,
but might as well,
name, description, and the price,
okay, now we need to import a few things,
GQL needs to be imported, okay,
so we need to get the existing product,
and let's go ahead and try to do that,
so say const, curly bracket,
data, error, loading,
is equal to use query,
and we'll pass it the single product query,
and then what else do we need
to pass the single product query?
The ID, right?
The ID of the item,
so that goes in via variables,
it's not auto completing,
it makes me think,
Oh, you know why?
I love that,
it's like, "Hmm, it wasn't auto-completing."
It's 'cause we didn't import use query yet,
and it doesn't know what arguments it takes,
so let's go ahead and auto-import use query,
boom, there it is,
from apollo client,
and then it should tell me that, here we go,
variable's ID is equal to the ID,
and when I give that a save,
it short format to just ID, there we go,
and then in here,
just log out our data,
and here we go,
there's our product, the Fanorak,
let's go to another page,
go to the Airmax, edit that one,
and there we go,
there's our Airmax, okay, good,
so that's number one is get the initial product,
second, we need a mutation to update the products.
All right, go up here,
and we'll say const,
update product mutation is equal to GQL,
then inside of there,
we have a mutation called update product mutation,
that takes in,
well, let's go look at it, right?
Remember what did we say we needed?
Update product needs and ID and it also needs data, right?
Okay, so in our case,
we're going to update the product mutation,
takes in an ID,
which is a type of ID,
and let's put these on it's own line,
we got a lot coming in here.
We need a name, which is a string,
we need a description, which is a string,
and we need a price, which is an integer,
and then that will, in turn,
call our updateItem,
now this is the GraphQL,
so this is what we're calling, right here,
not updateItem, updateProduct,
and that takes in an ID,
which is our ID variable,
and the data object,
we're just going to say name,
here, let me show you a little trick,
name, sometimes you type all this stuff in,
you could put these in their own type,
and just use that,
but sometimes it's easier just to type it,
there we go,
bum, bum, bum,
data is going to be the variable that came in, boom,
okay, so that I'll just put it on it's own line,
but ID that is ID variable name,
name, description, description, price, price,
okay, and then from that,
we need to return,
we don't really care too much about what we return,
'cause we are just gonna refresh this initial query
after it's all done,
but we're gonna grab the name,
oh, I can just paste in what I got here (laughs),
name, description, and the price.
All right, let's make sure nothing's broken,
that was a lot of code that we wrote,
okay, it's good,
and so what we'll do right here,
is we'll say const,
square brackets, update,
we'll call it update product,
that's our setter function,
and then we need to destructure,
data, error, and loading,
and that is going to be equal to use query,
or no, useMutation,
and it takes the update product mutation,
and then the variables that be passed along to this,
we've got to import useMutation,
the variables are going to be,
well, what variables does it need?
It needs ID, name, description, and price,
it's going to be the ID value,
and then we're going to spread in all
of the updates that has happened,
and we don't have that yet,
but we have a problem here, data,
data has already been declared, right?
Like, we already named data,
error, and loading here,
and now we get data, error,
and loading here,
so what do you do where you use two queries,
or two mutations, or one of each,
inside of a single function?
Well, because we are destructuring the result from this,
we could either just like dump it into one variable,
we could just call this like mutationResponse,
and then where we needed to access it,
we would just say mutationResponse dot data,
dot loading, and dot error,
or you could rename them as you destructure them,
so data, colon, updateData,
error, updateError,
and loading, is updateLoading,
and that is renaming,
so you do you destructure the data property
into a new variable called updateData,
and that way those variables are not overlapping each other,
and accidentally overwriting 'em,
it's not even valid JavaScript
if you're using anything modern,
so that's kind of important.
All right, whew,
that is some funky, funky JavaScript,
we just wrote there,
but we have an updater,
we have our variables,
we're using our mutation, and we pass it,
and then we have to say,
"To do, pass in updates to product here."
All right, so that's that,
next, the third thing,
we need a form to handle the updates,
and right here, we're gonna do a little bit
of copy pasting from our create form,
'cause it is going to be very similar,
so if we take a look at our create product,
and you see we have our form tag here,
just copy the entire return,
and the all of the form here,
and let's just paste that in there,
now this is not gonna work,
'cause there's a bunch of errors,
but let's go through it together,
so, return form,
we need to import the form styles, on submit,
let's just comment out everything,
and say, "To do, handle submit."
Okay, next line, DisplayError,
we need to import that, good,
loading, this loading state will be not
for the querying of it,
it's for the updating,
so we will change that to updateLoading,
and then I guess, also,
the error needs to be that error, or updateError,
so we could pass both, or either,
if it queries has an error,
it will show that,
otherwise it will,
if there is a update error, it'll pass that,
the image, we're not doing the image here,
so we can get rid of that, name,
inputs name, handle change,
we have to do that form thing in just a sec,
the price is there,
the description is there,
and then the submit should be,
we'll just name that update product, okay?
Now, we need to deal with the form state, right?
'Cause we don't have form state yet,
so if we hop back to create product,
remember we did this right here,
copy this entire use form hook that we did,
and we'll go into our update product,
and we'll just go right here above it, what is that?
"2.5 is going to be create some state for the form inputs."
Paste that, so,
inputs, handle change,
clear form, reset form,
is equal to use form,
got to import that,
and now the image, the name,
the price, and the description,
those things can just be pulled off
of where did we get it?
Right here, data,
so you could either just pass the entire object like that,
or you could say, name is data dot name,
let's just try, hmm,
I'm gonna mainly pass it,
because we don't need the ID input,
so, actually,
no, let's try it, let's try it,
let's just try data.
Okay, so,
now these inputs should be populating the name,
and the price, and description,
but they're not,
so let's debug that,
we can just log out our inputs, there we go,
product, oh I see,
I see, it's data dot product.
"Cannot read property product of undefined."
Ah, you know why?
Because there is a possibility that we're in loading state,
so, we'll just say,
"If loading, return paragraph loading dot, dot, dot."
There we go,
all right, so that worked well,
we have queried the single product,
we're passing it into our use form hook,
it's giving us some grief here,
"Use form hook is called conditionally,
"react hooks must be called
"in the exact same order of every render."
Okay, we're not allowed do this,
I should've remembered that,
so we will bring that loading down here,
and then what we need to do,
is pass it, data question mark dot product,
so if there is data,
then pass the product.
One more thing we need to do,
is just go to the homepage,
and try to edit another one,
and you'll see it's empty,
I'm gonna cover why that happens in just a second,
it has to do with the fact that our initial state
is initially empty until the loading can come in,
and that's a bit of a weird thing,
so, I think we have to use,
like, use effect to fix that,
but that's fine,
let's just go to one,
and then just manually refresh the page,
and make sure that they fill out,
and then we'll go back and figure that out
on how to do that.
Okay, so can I type in here?
Yes I can,
when that happens, when the submit happens,
we need to prevent default, yes,
and then we also need to run our updateProduct function,
so, updateProduct,
and here we can just say const, response,
and console dot log the response,
and then we also need to pass the inputs data
to our updateProduct,
and we could do that a number of different ways,
we could either pass it right here, when we define it,
or we can pass it on call,
I've already shown you how to do it at definition,
so maybe, actually,
I'm gonna show you how to do it on call,
just so that we know how to do it both ways,
so let's take this variables,
the whole second argument of useMutation,
can be actually taken out,
and then when we call it,
we can pass the variables,
and it needs an ID,
which I believe, yeah,
we're within scope of our component,
so we can just pass that ID variable,
and then the data is going to be inputs, right?
It's this value right here.
So, if we've did it all right,
and I add an X to here,
and clear out my console, click on update,
(grunts) all right, it broke.
The error was, well,
we can catch it, so response,
oh, we got to await this,
and we can tack a dot catch,
console dot log, or console dot error onto the end,
and that should give us a bit more information,
so put an X on the end,
clear that out, update,
"Field ID is not defined by the type
"of product update input."
Ah, okay, I see,
I see why that's happening,
so what we're doing here,
is we're taking the product data,
and putting it into our inputs,
but if you take a look at it,
it has all of the fields that we want,
but then it also has ID on it,
and if you try to update the ID on a product,
it says, "Hey, I wasn't expecting you to give me an ID."
And then, if you're using REST,
or something like that,
it might just ignore it,
but in our case, GraphQL is typed,
and it gets really cranky
when you pass it stuff it doesn't want,
so, we could either just explicitly type it,
or delete the ID,
I think it's worth explicitly typing it,
because who knows what other fields you're gonna be adding,
and accidentally breaking this update form,
whereas if you opt into the fields you want,
it's much easier,
so in our case, we need the name,
which is inputs dot name,
we need the description,
and we need, what was it?
The price,
and that way we're only passing the data we want,
and not just assuming everything goes along for the ride,
so let's try it again,
X, update product, another error,
what was the error here?
"Received status 400, error's undefined."
Let's try it again.
X, clear it out,
update, here we go,
"Field ID not defined by product input."
Same error.
Oh, I see,
I know why,
it's because our variables are coming in at one level here,
I think I even made this mistake
the first time I recorded it,
and then there'll be splitting up
into ID and data after that,
so it's expecting us to pass the variables like this,
not nested like that,
so, we can go back to where we passed the variables,
and just pass them at one level deep like this.
Go, put an X on the end,
ha, how many errors are we gonna get here?
"Field ID is not defined by product--"
It's the same error,
so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna do,
is I'm gonna head back to my docs here for updateProduct,
let's search for updateProduct,
and yeah, it takes ID and a product update input,
it's this that it's whining about,
so let's take a look
at what update product input looks like,
name, description, photo, status, price,
yeah, okay, so it's telling me
that we're passing an ID along,
ah, here it is,
it's telling me
that we're passing an ID along with it, right?
And we shouldn't,
we only should be passing those,
so, whew, all right,
so there was multiple bugs there,
we fixed 'em all,
and I bet it'll work now.
Seventh time's a charm, right?
Is that the saying?
Update, boom, there we go,
data came back, update product,
and there's an X on it,
I bet if we refresh the page now,
there we go, it is updated,
I like it, okay.
Okay, that is working well,
let's just triple check everything is working,
there we go,
refresh the page, it's all working,
okay, so that is updating,
there's one more bug,
but I'm gonna wait till the next video,
so that we can explain it a little bit better,
and dig into how to actually fix that bug,
I'll see you in that one.